JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And I'm Hari
Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Gwen Ifill will
be off the
air this week while she
addresses health issues.
We look forward to her return as
soon as possible.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
Americans decide.
Voters head to the polls to
choose between
the first woman president and a
businessman
running for his first elected
office.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The balance of
power is
also on the line, with control
of the U.S.
Senate in play and many other
key races at
stake.
Stay with us all night for the
latest results.
Plus, Mark Shields, David
Brooks, Amy Walter
and many others help analyze
what it all means.
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's election
night on the
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's been a long
day of voting
all across this country, and the
vast majority
of the polls are still open.
At issue, whether Hillary
Clinton or Donald
Trump will become the 45th
president of the
United States.
Lisa Desjardins begins our
coverage this election
night.
LISA DESJARDINS: New York state,
where both
presidential nominees began
their campaigns,
and now, after 500-plus days of
campaigning,
it's where they're ending.
Democrat Hillary Clinton cast a
ballot today
at her home base, Chappaqua,
awash in supporters'
cheers both inside and outside
the polling
place.
CROWD: Hillary! Hillary!
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
It's the most humbling feeling,
Dan, because
I know how much responsibility
goes with this.
And so many people are counting
on the outcome
of this election, what it means
for our country.
And I will do the very best I
can, if I'm
fortunate enough to win today.
LISA DESJARDINS: Chappaqua is
just north of
New York City, and that's where
Republican
Donald Trump cast his vote.
QUESTION: So, who did you vote
for?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Tough decision.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: That after
kicking off his
day, as he has so many times in
this campaign,
with a call-in to FOX News.
DONALD TRUMP: It's been a
beautiful process.
The people of this country are
incredible.
I went -- last night, I ended up
with my final
speech.
We started with it -- well, you
guys covered
it -- but started at 12:45 in
the evening,
and we had probably 21,000
people.
Can you imagine that?
LISA DESJARDINS: That final
speech, in the
wee hours of this morning, was
in Grand Rapids,
Michigan.
DONALD TRUMP: We have to win.
LISA DESJARDINS: His campaign's
closing salvo
in a weeklong push to crack
Clinton's blue
firewall.
Clinton, too, was campaigning
into the early
morning in another key state,
North Carolina.
An Associated Press analysis
said, across
the country, at least 46 million
votes were
already in before today, a
record for early
voting.
Still, many millions were lined
up across
the country to weigh in on the
candidates,
and this long campaign.
WOMAN: Clearly, the candidates
were not well-liked,
so I will be glad when it's
over.
WOMAN: I think it's going to
take a minute
for all of us to come together.
I think we also need to take a
moment to,
like, just breathe.
We're a democracy.
And we need to -- this is how
it's supposed
to be done.
LISA DESJARDINS: There were
voting concerns
in some places today.
Voting machines in three
Pennsylvania counties
experienced malfunctions.
But elections staff there said
no ballots
were miscounted.
In a fourth Pennsylvania county,
Lebanon County,
officials said calibration
problems sometimes
meant a vote for the GOP ticket
lit up as
a vote for Democrats.
They say a software expert was
able to fix
each problem.
The day was also about
symbolism.
In Rochester, New York, dozens
put "I Voted"
stickers on the grave of
suffragist Susan
B. Anthony on the day the first
woman nominee
for president of a major party
was on the
ballot.
Unknown is exactly what time
tonight this
race for the White House might
end.
Also at stake tonight, of
course, possible
changes in power at the other
end of Pennsylvania
Avenue, the Capitol.
But, for now, New York is the
center of the
political world, with the two
presidential
hopefuls set to end this
campaign just 25
blocks apart.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We will be
turning to New
York City throughout the night,
where both
Clinton and Trump have their
election night
headquarters.
John Yang is with Clinton
supporters at the
Javits Convention Center.
John, this is the last day.
There's nothing left that they
can do.
What have you heard today?
JOHN YANG: Well, they're
watching and waiting.
They're very hopeful.
They're optimistic about their
field operations.
They think that's what's going
to make the
difference in a lot of places
where the race
has been very close.
Right now, here at the Javits
Center, the
doors not yet open to the
public, still putting
the final touches on.
When I asked the campaign why
they were here
at the Javits Center, they
pointed up.
This has a literal glass
ceiling, a glass
ceiling they're hoping to
symbolically burst
through tonight with the first
woman to be
elected president.
More symbolism here, the stage
that they're
working on is in the shape of
the United States.
The lectern where Hillary
Clinton will speak
is pretty much over Oklahoma, it
looks to
me.
The campaign tells me that she
has prepared
remarks either way, win or lose,
and she will
be speaking on a map of the
United States.
That's the Lower 48.
Where's Hawaii and Alaska?
Over there on the side -- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: John Yang, thank
you.
We're going to be coming back to
you throughout
the night.
Both Hari and I will be doing
that.
And now let's move to Trump
headquarters.
Our Jeffrey Brown is there at
the Hilton Hotel
in Midtown.
So, Jeff, tell us what it's like
at this moment.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, Judy, I can
tell you,
we have no glass ceiling here.
We actually have a rather low
ceiling and
a rather small venue.
It's a decidedly small venue,
perhaps the
smallest one I have ever seen
for an event
like this.
We're only about a
mile-and-a-half away from
where John was.
So, John and I might meet at the
end of this
long night, probably about
Eighth Avenue.
That's to my west.
A few blocks to my east is Trump
Tower.
And, of course, that's where
Donald Trump
is, we're told, spending the
evening there,
we were told perhaps coming by
10:00, or at
least no earlier than 10:00.
But, at this point, who knows
how long this
night will go on.
But we were able to talk to some
of the people
from the campaign earlier today,
and, as John
heard from the Clinton campaign,
the Trump
campaign was feeling pretty good
about what
was happening and what they were
seeing at
the polls.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Jeff, are
they saying -- are
any of the folks there sounding
optimistic?
Are they sounding worried?
Are you picking up any vibes?
I know it's early in the
evening.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes, it's too
early to really
know here.
I mean, I tell you what is --
it's funny here
right now.
I mean, as I said, this is a
small place.
I'm surrounded by hundreds and
hundreds of
my new best friends who are
journalists right
now, Judy.
And so -- and you can see the
journalists
well -- a much bigger number of
than people in the hall.
And outside, of course, talking
to people
in the Trump campaign, they were
talking to
reporters earlier in the day,
and, as I said,
they were watching, they were
hopeful.
They were watching the returns
in some of
the key states.
Donald Trump himself was on
Twitter about
an hour ago, pretty active.
He sent out three or four
tweets.
And he was talking specifically:
Go, Florida.
This is still ours to win.
Get out there and vote.
So, he's still pushing people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes, I have been
looking at
some of his tweets this
afternoon.
Jeffrey Brown, we will be
talking to you throughout
this night from New York.
Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
Thanks, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We get some
perspective now
from supporters of both
candidates.
And we start with the minority
leader in the
U.S. House of Representatives,
California
Democrat Nancy Pelosi.
She was the first and only woman
to serve
as speaker of the House.
And, at this moment, she is the
highest-ranking
female politician in American
history.
But, Madam Leader, I think
you're probably
hoping that that is not going to
last much
longer after tonight.
Is that right?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI (D-CA), House
Minority Leader:
I'm counting the minutes to
relinquish that
title.
I have worn my white and purple,
colors of
the Suffragettes, in honor of
the fact that
we have our first woman
president, soon to
be, Hillary Clinton, elected
president of
the United States.
But the vote is sacred.
Until the people speak, we don't
celebrate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what are you
expecting
tonight?
You obviously are hoping for
Democrats to
do well everywhere, but what are
you hearing?
What kind of judgment --
information are you
getting that you trust?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Well, tonight, I
believe that
the Democrats will come out in a
stronger
position.
We will, of course, retain the
White House,
with the election of Hillary
Clinton.
I believe we will gain the
United States Senate.
It will be close, but we will
gain the United
States Senate.
And we will pick up many seats
in the House
of Representatives.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Why are you so
confident about
the White House?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Because I'm
confident in the
American people.
I believe that Hillary Clinton
is one of the
best prepared people in our
history to enter
the Oval Office, with her
vision, her knowledge,
her experience, her strategic
thinking, her
connection to the American
people.
And I think she has made that
case.
But, as you know, the vote is
sacred.
It's almost a prayerful time for
us, as we
wait for the people to speak and
the returns
to come in.
But I'm confident.
I'm also confident because, in
our efforts
to win seats for the White House
and to win
the Senate, governorships, et
cetera, we have
really had a massive
mobilization.
We own the ground, and we will
pull out that
vote.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, most of the
attention,
as you know, has been on the
Senate.
There are six or seven seats
there very, very,
very close.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Less attention on
the House,
your body, because it's been
pretty much expected
that the Democrats are not going
to make the
30-seat pickup that you would
need to take
the majority.
There was optimism a few weeks
ago.
Then along came FBI Director
Comey's announcement.
What do you realistically think
right now
about the House?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Well, let's see.
I always to people it's like the
Olympics.
Everything within a
half-a-minute or a half-an-inch
is gold, silver, bronze or
nothing.
And our races are very close.
But I think that we will not
lose any members.
I think we will pick up many
open seats, and
we will unseat many Republicans.
And there will be some
surprises.
But you point out Director
Comey's comment.
With his letter that he sent
out, he became
the leading Republican political
operative
in the country.
He has had a tremendous impact
on the lead
that Hillary Clinton had, which
was important
to the House, Senate, and other
races down-ballot.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We're talking,
Madam Leader,
about an election that has
divided the country.
It has been -- it seems to me
that's the overwhelming
feeling coming out of this
election at the
end of it.
Is that how you see it?
Do you think the country is
further divided
by what's happened?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: I think that
people have great
anger over what happened in 2008
in terms
of the economy.
And that has given them anxiety
about the
future.
And that has to be respected.
And some of that has manifested
itself in
a vote for Donald Trump.
But I do think that our
democracy is so great,
we can withstand even a
candidacy of Donald
Trump.
And when we emerge from this, it
has to be
respecting the position of those
who supported
him, addressing the anger and
anxiety that
they have, and, again, bringing
the country
together, which was always the
purpose of
our founders, a more perfect
union.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, that brings
me what's
going on in so-called blue
states, especially
the Upper Midwest, states like
Michigan, even
Minnesota, Wisconsin, where
Donald Trump does
seem to be doing better than
President Obama
did a few years ago.
A lot of people are asking, are
Democrats
really being responsive to
blue-collar working-class
individuals who used to think of
the Democratic
Party as their party, but are
now looking
in another direction?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Well, I would say
this.
President Obama and the
congressional Democrats
have certainly been responsive.
And what we do in terms of
people in the area
that you mentioned, we had the
bailout of
the auto industry, creating so
many jobs in
the industry and for those who
supply the
industry.
And yet we didn't advertise it
enough.
So I think, yes, we were there
in terms of
middle-class economics and an
economy that
works for everyone,
strengthening paychecks,
increasing consumer confidence,
people consuming,
injecting demand into the
economy, creating
jobs vs. trickle-down economics,
tax breaks
for the wealthiest people.
But we didn't message it
properly.
So, how could it be that
Michigan, Indiana,
all of those states that have
benefited from
the auto bailout, from
middle-class economics,
have decided to vote Republican?
There are some other reasons as
well, some
that are sociological, in
addition to economics.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just finally, you
don't believe
that Democrats have some work to
do in order
to, not just messaging, but in
order to come
up with programs, with ideas
that can capture
the imagination and the support
of these people?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Well, President
Obama came up
with tremendous ideas, but he
was blocked
by the Republicans.
But we can all do better.
We can all do better.
We're an entrepreneurial
society.
We had entrepreneurs who started
our country.
And they want us to think in
fresh, new, different
ways all of the time.
But the fact is, is that people
in some of
these regions are voting against
their own
economic interests.
We have to work together.
They have concerns about trade.
So do we.
We want a trade that is not
trickle-down trade,
but trade that recognizes we're
in a global
economy.
So, we have to work together on
all of those
things.
But I stand by what I said, is
the Democrats
have been there for working
people in our
country.
That's who we are, trickle-down
vs. middle-class
economics.
That's the major difference
between the parties.
If we didn't have this
foolishness going on
with some of the -- that went on
in the presidential
campaign, we could have had a
better discussion
of that.
But, again, this is almost a
religious experience,
Election Day, and all the voting
that has
gone leading up to it.
Lincoln said, public sentiment
is everything.
We have to listen to the people
and come together
as we prioritize our agenda and
go forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just finally,
Madam Leader,
how does the next president
bring the two
sides together, the two parties
together after
this election?
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: Well, I think we
will see some
of that tonight.
I think Hillary Clinton's
statement tonight
about being the president of all
of the people,
again, we have our differences
since the beginning
of our country.
It's a legitimate difference.
What is the role of government,
et cetera,
federal, state, local?
But, also, we have respect for
other people's
points of view.
And I think that that has to
really come across
in what Hillary Clinton says
tonight.
She needs no advice from anyone.
You know, she's an experienced
public figure.
But there has to be no doubt
that this isn't
about Democrats or Republicans.
That's minor.
It's about America.
It's about the vows of our --
honoring the
vows of our founders, respecting
the sacrifices
of our men and women in uniform,
and honoring
the aspirations of our children
and their
future.
So, elections are about the
And whoever is going to be
president tonight
-- and I think it will be
Hillary -- has to
understand that it's a
responsibility well
beyond party and all about
America's future.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The minority
leader of the
U.S. House of Representatives,
who, as we
said, is the highest-ranking
woman in the
American government right now.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: For the moment.
For the moment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you very
much for joining
us.
REP.
NANCY PELOSI: My pleasure.
Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, as you just
heard, we
just heard from the Democratic
leader of the
House of Representatives.
We do hope to be joined any
minute now by
the Republican National
Committee's Communications
Director, Sean Spicer.
He's running late.
We hear there's traffic.
We hope to get him here very
shortly.
But, for now, our election night
coverage
continues with a team that's
going to be joining
us at this table all night long.
They are New York Times
columnist David Brooks,
Amy Walter of The Cook Political
Report, Andra
Gillespie of Emory University,
Republican
strategist Stuart Stevens,
Democratic strategist
Cornell Belcher, and right here
sitting next
to me, Mark Shields, syndicated
columnist,
and joining us from New York,
Jeff Greenfield,
who has been reporting for the
"NewsHour Weekend"
throughout this campaign.
So, thank you to all of you for
being here.
I'm going to turn to you, David
Brooks.
You just heard the Democratic
leader of the
House of Representatives talk
about, frankly,
the problems Democrats have in
states that
used to be all blue.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
And it struck me that she didn't
claim they
were going to take over the
House, a bit of
realism there from Nancy Pelosi,
I think,
but optimism -- and maybe
well-earned optimism.
It is still a party -- a problem
for the party
that working-class voters, white
working-class
voters are more and more heavily
Republican.
One of the exciting things that
happened,
whether you like it or not, this
year was
that the white working class
took over a party,
and they took over a party that
had formerly
been a corporate party of the
rich and the
elites.
And that's sort of an amazing
thing that happens
in American -- rarely in
American history.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We have a problem
with your
microphone, David Brooks.
We are going to fix that and
come right back
to you in a minute.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Hi,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hello.
AMY WALTER: And I think this may
play out
in the House tonight.
As we're watching these results
come in, if
the results play out as the poll
numbers have
suggested, where the Democrats
are going to
pick up seats will be in places
that were
formerly Republican, inner-city
-- or inner
suburbs that were very
Republican for much
of our history now trending more
Democratic,
as white college-educated voters
move into
the Democratic column.
As working-class whites have
moved out, white
educated voters have moved into
the Democratic
column.
And, at the same time, in places
like the
Iron Range in Minnesota, that
upper rural
part of Minnesota, you could see
Republicans
winning there, a district that
Democrats have
held for many, many, many, many
years.
So, it's really like a tale of
two congressional
districts.
Right?
We're going to swap out the
suburbs for the
more rural areas.
This has been happening over the
last 10 years,
but sort of at an accelerated
pace, I think,
this election cycle.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stuart
Stevens, are Nancy
Pelosi's expectations
reasonable?
STUART STEVENS, Former Romney
Campaign Senior
Adviser: I think probably she is
going to
probably call it pretty close to
what's going
to happen.
You know, the big test, I think,
tonight for
the Trump campaign -- and it's
going to affect
these down-ballot races -- is
what happens
with white college-educated
voters?
This has been a strong center of
support for
Republicans.
No Republican has lost this in
modern history.
Even Goldwater won
college-educated Republicans.
So, if Donald Trump, who has
been losing them
in polls, doesn't carry them
tonight, I think
it's going to have very
interesting consequences
up and down the ballot in some
of these races.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark Shields,
what are you
looking at tonight?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I'm looking
at the fact
that we're going to make
mystery.
Either we will elect the first
person in the
history of the country who has
never held
a public office or served in the
military
of any kind in Donald Trump, or
we will elect
the first woman.
And only for the second time
since World War
II, we have got a possibility to
electing
a party to the third term in the
White House.
It happened with George H.W.
Bush in 1988,
and hasn't happened other than
that.
I think Democrats have a real
problem culturally.
I think they have become a
cultural party,
and I think a little elite and
somewhat condescending
toward white blue-collar working
Americans.
And I think that the Republicans
had a great
opening there.
Democrats are obviously far more
comfortable
with coastal types than they are
with people
in the heartland.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Cornell Belcher,
I saw you
smile broadly when Mark said
that.
CORNELL BELCHER, Former Obama
Campaign Pollster:
Well, it's interesting that
Democrats are
now back-to-back majorities in
national elections,
and somehow the problem is
Democrats have
a cultural problem with
working-class whites.
I think Democrats do have a
problem with working-class
whites.
But, if you look into the
future, I think
the larger problem is the
problem that Republicans
have with the ascending
electorate, right?
It's a point of diminishing
returns at some
point with working-class whites.
Do Democrats need to do better
with working-class
whites?
Absolutely, they do.
But, without a question, when we
see her re-cobble
together that ascending
electorate that makes
up a majority in this country
now, I think
it's going to be hard-pressed to
say that
right now Democrats are the ones
with the
problem.
MARK SHIELDS: Could I just
dissent just briefly
from Cornell?
Got to set the evening, he did,
early.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: That is this.
The Democrats, in spite of
assembling this
national coalition and this
majority, are
noncompetitive in the House of
Representatives.
They're frankly noncompetitive.
And they're noncompetitive in
districts that
are basically blue-collar,
white, more conservative
culturally.
CORNELL BELCHER: But, Mark, what
about -- doesn't
that have a lot to do, quite
frankly, with
gerrymandering?
We have gerrymandered these
districts where...
MARK SHIELDS: They weren't
gerrymandered in
2010, Cornell.
That's all.
CORNELL BELCHER: Well, no, they
were gerrymandered
just before 2010.
MARK SHIELDS: No, they weren't.
No, they weren't.
CORNELL BELCHER: Yes, they were.
MARK SHIELDS: It was the 2010
census that
led to the redistricting,
CORNELL BELCHER: Well, they're
even worse
now.
Once upon a time in this
country, you did
have 30 or 40 congressional
districts that
were -- when I was working at
the DCCC, you
really did have a lot more
congressional districts
that were highly contested.
That number is shrinking a lot
now.
And it has to do with people
like me who are
helping to draw these maps
precisely in a
way to keep incumbents in
office.
MARK SHIELDS: OK.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andra
Gillespie, you wanted
to chime in there?
ANDRA GILLESPIE, Emory
University: So, if
I will jump in here, what I
would say is,
it's not just gerrymandering.
We also have to consider the
ways that we
have ideologically sorted
ourselves into partisan
camps in ways that we hadn't
before.
A generation ago, you had
liberal Republicans
and conservative Democrats.
Those don't exist anymore.
So, people understand enough
about parties
to know which issues and which
bundles fall
into which party, and they have
fallen into
those camps.
So, the question for tomorrow
is, can people
reach beyond the aisles and
actually talk
to people who disagree with
them?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter,
you're nodding.
AMY WALTER: Yes.
Well, and we're self-sorting now
more than
ever.
You talk to demographers, they
will tell you
that we're moving ourselves into
areas that
relate to our own, where we're
most comfortable
in sociocultural ways.
And if you look, for example, at
the question
-- Pew has asked this question.
And I think it's fantastic.
Do you want to live in a place
that is a close-in
area, where you can walk
everywhere, but you
have a smaller house, or you get
a bigger
house and a bigger yard, but you
have to drive
everywhere?
Guess what?
Seventy-five percent of liberals
want the
close-in suburb.
Seventy-five percent of
conservatives want
the place where you have to
drive.
And so, literally, people are
putting themselves
into different communities and
separating
themselves.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jeff
Greenfield, I want
to invite you into this
conversation.
Are the old boundaries still
relevant today?
JEFF GREENFIELD: Less and less.
It's just striking to me that
the Democratic
Party has been the party of the
working man
and later working woman since
the days of
Andrew Jackson.
And, as late as 1992, when
whites were a far
bigger proportion of the
electorate, Bill
Clinton effectively split the
white vote with
his Republican opponents both in
'92 and '96.
And one of the things that I
think has happened
is that the focus on
mobilization, get your
vote out, has, I think, had a
big cost, which
is that the candidates, even
though they will
use the rhetoric, the pieties,
but, in substantive
ways, do not speak to the
broader country,
because it has become harder and
harder to
speak to the broader country.
And I think, whatever happens
tonight, this
campaign has been a loss to the
civic nature
of what a campaign's supposed to
be like,
because the strategy of both
campaigns has
been get your folks out, and the
heck with
the other folks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Brooks, if
your microphone
is fixed, I want to ask you to
come into this
conversation about whether we
are making what
was already a bad situation
worse.
DAVID BROOKS: I was wondering
why Mark was
meddling with my microphone.
(LAUGHTER)
DAVID BROOKS: No, I think one of
the things,
there has been the polarization,
but there's
also the heat.
And tonight is often -- is a lot
about the
heat with which this campaign
has been conducted.
And what makes tonight
significant is, A,
the size of the margin and the
nature of the
concession speech and whether
we're a country
-- we're certainly a divided
country.
This election has been like a
flash flood
that wipes away all the soil and
reveals the
chasms that have been dividing
us and exacerbates
them.
But whether we're even one
country after tonight
-- if Democrats win, how Trump
reacts will
be super important.
If Trump wins, Democrats will be
stunned.
And a lot of people will be
And how Clinton reacts at that
moment will
be superduper important.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yes, exactly.
Andra, I want you to speak about
that, because
there's been -- I have been
hearing conversation
for days now about, what's the
reaction going
to be like?
Yes, the results are important,
but are people
even going to be able to deal
with the results,
whatever side you're on?
ANDRA GILLESPIE: There have been
some surveys
in the past couple of weeks
where people have
been asked that question.
And they said that they're not
going to be
happy about this.
And so I think we can expect
that half the
country is going to wake up
upset tomorrow.
And that's why it's really
important for whoever
loses to accept defeat
graciously, and also
for the winner to accept winning
graciously,
and also send out a conciliatory
balm to the
other side.
It's not going to be enough,
sadly.
And I think that it's going to
be pretty contentious
going after that.
But I think tonight is the night
where both
candidates can change the tone
enough that
they can actually get us
through, you know,
at least the next couple of
months, so that
we can set up a new government.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stuart
Stevens, what incentive
does Donald Trump have or
Hillary Clinton
have to change the tone today?
STUART STEVENS: Listen, I think
one of the
key elements of democracy is,
somebody has
to be willing to lose.
And what's been extraordinary, I
think, about
Donald Trump's comments is
challenging that
before we even have results.
It's one thing if there is a
razor-thin margin,
like 2000, where you have one
person winning
the Electoral College ultimately
and one person
winning the popular vote.
OK, that took 31 days.
It was a nightmare for the
country.
But to prejudge this and talking
about a rigged
system, I think, is very
corrosive to the
whole process.
Our process is out there amongst
these states
with thousands and thousands of
local officials,
many of them Republicans, and
they're really
good and decent people.
It doesn't mean mistakes don't
happen.
We are going to have 140
million, 150 million
people voting tonight.
There are going to be mistakes.
But the system isn't rigged.
And I think that you need -- to
put that out
is something.
We need to try to heal as soon
as possible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Cornell Belcher,
whose responsibility
is it to try to do this healing?
CORNELL BELCHER: Leadership
matters.
And this shouldn't be a partisan
thing.
Look, John McCain, after losing,
he called
Barack Obama "my president,"
right?
That's a tradition in this
country right now.
And I fear what's happening
right now is that
we're losing sight of that
tradition in so
much of the anger of our
politics.
It is important, whether you're
a Democrat
or you're a Republican, that you
embrace our
system, because it is not
rigged.
And the moment our people start
thinking -- and
I'm concerned about in the
polling numbers
that I'm see as well with so
many more people
actually thinking the system is
rigged.
That's how we lose our
democracy, when people
don't believe in the system
anymore and they
don't accept the outcome of our
politics.
What Donald Trump -- because I
think Donald
Trump is going to lose.
What Donald Trump does tonight,
I think, is
going to be very, very important
not just
for him and his brand, but for
our country.
AMY WALTER: but think about
where we were.
Even in 2000, that was a very
contentious
election.
We always remember the aftermath
of the election,
but going into that election,
George W. Bush,
his overall
favorable/unfavorable rating was
plus-23.
It's the highest that we had
seen since we'd
been looking back for the last
20 years.
So, he was very viewed
positively.
Now we're going into an election
where both
candidates obviously viewed
negatively, Hillary
Clinton somewhere around
minus-10 or 15, Donald
Trump even lower than that,
maybe at 20, minus-20
or minus-30.
So there's no residual goodwill
there, that
at least George W. Bush had
something to go
on.
Neither one of these candidates
have any of
that to start with.
STUART STEVENS: I think this is
why parties
are so important at this moment,
because parties
have to step forward and do what
the candidates
sometimes find difficult to do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All right.
We are going to have many
opportunities tonight
to come back to all of you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, save those
thoughts.
But we're getting off -- we're
getting off
tonight?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Yes.
We have got -- I'm joined now, I
think, by
RNC -- I am joined by Sean
Spicer, the Republican
National Committee
communications director.
Thanks for joining us.
You're joining us from Trump
headquarters
tonight in Manhattan.
I want to ask you, has the RNC
done everything
that it can to put its candidate
in the best
position possible?
Have you left everything out on
the field?
SEAN SPICER, Communications
Director, Republican
National Committee: Everything
is on the field
tonight, Hari.
I don't think there is a speck
of dirt left
on the field, but not just for
the candidate,
but for the Senate, for our
House members,
for our governors, for
down-ballot, all the
way down to dogcatcher.
I think we feel unbelievably
proud of the
ground game and the data
operation that we
have run.
Just to put it in perspective,
in 2012, we
had 876 staff fanned out across
the battleground
states.
This time, it's 6,012.
We made 11.5 door knocks in '12.
We exceeded 20 million this day,
this cycle
today.
And I think that's a huge feat
for the RNC
and for all the volunteers and
state parties
that have been part of that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You made a
strategic decision
after the last cycle to go after
the ground
game more so than television ad
spending.
But a lot of Trump supporters
said, you know
what, you had spent so much more
money supporting
candidates in the past than this
cycle.
Just in the last week or so, you
came in with
about $3 million or $4 million
worth of ads
in a last-minute blitz.
Could you have done more?
SEAN SPICER: Oh, no.
Look, first of all, that was
part of the coordinated
expenditure that the candidate
gets.
So, there's $24 million that the
candidate
can coordinate with the RNC.
That was part of that.
That wasn't an independent
expenditure, which
is what you were referring to in
the past.
But you're right.
We put all of our money into the
ground and
to data.
We spent over $175 million in
data over the
last four years in advance of
this election.
And, like I said, the numbers
don't lie; 876
staff were on the ground last
cycle, 6,012
this time.
But it's not just the number.
It's the length.
We have had them out there in
some cases two,
three years to make
relationships in communities,
put voter contacts,
registration.
And I think it shows.
Look at our absentee and early
vote numbers.
We have cut that deficit huge.
And I think that is what is
going to propel
us to victory tonight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: One of things
that you also
came out of the postmortem after
the Romney
loss last time was figuring out
a way to go
out and reach Latino voters.
And, as we're hearing in the
past couple of
days, Latino voters might be a
significant
factor in this election, if the
early voting
results are to be believed, if
that tracks
out for tonight.
Are you concerned that your
candidate might
have set you a couple of steps
back?
SEAN SPICER: Well, if you look
at what the
exit polls are showing so far,
right now,
he's on track with Romney, and
we're up a
few points with African-American
voters.
So, I think that bottom line is,
it looks
like we may have -- we probably
have improved
with minority voters vis-a-vis
the 2012 election.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Considering
that the Latino
voting population is going to be
important
in the long run for Democrats
and Republicans
as they become a larger
proportion of this
country?
SEAN SPICER: Oh, absolutely.
I think, look, I don't think
that doing good
enough is OK.
I think we have got to do much
better.
We have got to get our Latino
and Hispanic
vote into the high 30s, low 40s,
like George
W. Bush did.
You're absolutely right.
The demographic shift that is
coming in this
country, we have got to be ahead
of the curve.
And I think the Republican Party
is a natural
home for Hispanics.
And I think that we have got to
do a better
job of going our to those
communities, working
in them.
We have made huge strides since
2012 putting
staff in those communities.
But we have got room to continue
to improve.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I agree that
there's room
to improve.
I'm just saying, how difficult
is it for you
when the top of the ticket
speaks in a way
that really turns them off?
SEAN SPICER: Well, again, I
think look at
the exit polls right now.
So far, we're on par or better
than we were
in 2012.
So, the numbers will speak for
themselves
after tonight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What are your
expectations
tonight?
You have got access to
information that we
certainly don't.
So, looking at the first and
second and third
and fourth waves of results that
you might
have access to, what are you
expecting?
SEAN SPICER: I think North
Carolina, we feel
really good about.
We feel very good about
Michigan.
I think Colorado is a state
that's shown tremendous
advance in the last couple
weeks.
So, there's a lot of these
states that Obama
won twice, not only won twice,
but I mentioned
Michigan.
That's a state that hasn't gone
Republican
since 1988.
We feel that we are going to do
very well
in these.
And, look, the paths to 270 has
continued
to increase over the last couple
weeks as
the map has expanded.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Sean Spicer from
the Republican National
Committee, joining
us from Trump headquarters in
New York tonight,
thanks so much.
SEAN SPICER: Thanks, Hari.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Every election
year, it seems
there are reports of long lines,
malfunctioning
voting machines, and sporadic
chaos at some
of the polls.
And today is no different.
But, for months, we have heard
accusations,
as we have just been discussing
here, by the
Trump campaign that the election
is rigged
and could possibly be stolen.
We head up now to William
Brangham.
He's in our newsroom with what
we have been
seeing so far today -- William.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Hi, Judy.
Thanks very much.
Yes, we're trying to sort out
all -- amongst
all the reports we have been
getting today,
what of these are real and what
of them are
not?
And to help us sort of through
that, I'm joined
now by Jessica Huseman.
She's a reporter at ProPublica,
and she's
part of a really interesting
large consortium
of election monitors known as
Electionland.
Jessica, welcome.
Let's dive right into this.
Today, the Trump campaign filed
a lawsuit
alleging that there were some
problems going
on in Nevada.
Can you bring us up to date?
What was their complaint?
And what's happened with that?
JESSICA HUSEMAN, ProPublica:
Sure.
So, what they were asking the
judge was essentially
separate out some votes at a
couple of polling
locations that were kept open
late.
And they were also asking for
the names of
the poll workers in those
locations, so that
they could investigate
themselves.
The judge turned down both of
those requests,
one, because the state of Nevada
already does
that.
They already keep the votes
separate.
There was no need for the judge
to rule that
they must do something that they
already do.
And then also she was concerned
that the voter
-- that the poll workers that he
wanted access
to would be intimidated or
otherwise harassed
online if she were to make their
names public.
And so she declined to do that,
and also said
that there was no proof that the
secretary
of state of Nevada wouldn't do a
thorough
investigation herself.
So, the Trump campaign really
just didn't
show enough reason for her to do
these things
that it was asking them to do.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So, I
understand these were
largely Latino voters that the
Trump campaign
was concerned had been allowed
some special
access to vote...
JESSICA HUSEMAN: Sure.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: ... and that
this seems
to fit into this pattern that
the Trump campaign
has been making all along, that
somehow the
polls are going to be wiggled so
that certain
voters, maybe minority voters,
might get special
access.
And I know the Trump campaign
has also asked
some of its own supporters to go
out and watch
and monitor what's going on at
the polls.
Have you been seeing any reports
of that kind
of activity that would be
problematic today?
JESSICA HUSEMAN: You know, we
have seen one-off
reports of those kind of all
over the country,
but they have been in the vast
minority of
instances.
So, what we're not seeing at
this moment is
an organized campaign to
intimidate voters,
like some feared we might see
today.
We haven't seen any indication
of that.
What we have seen is one or two
people at
polling places across the
country, but a very
small number of them
intimidating voters,
screaming at voters, having
intimidating or
inappropriate signs, but no real
indication
that anything organized has
transpired.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: We have also
been seeing
reports that there were problems
with some
voting machines in Pennsylvania.
Can you tell us what you heard
about that?
JESSICA HUSEMAN: Right.
So, we actually just published
an article
about this.
And so you can go to
Election.land and read
it.
But the -- what we're seeing is
that there
was a viral video that happened
where a voter
tried to press Trump, and it
wasn't working.
And so it -- and so he blamed it
on a rigged
voting machine, but it was
actually user error.
And we were able to see this by
looking up
the instructions for the voting
machine.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Similarly, in
Durham County,
North Carolina, which obvious is
a very crucial
swing state, there have been
long lines, problems
with registration, absent -- not
enough ballots
for people.
What's been going on there?
I understand there's been also
calls to keep
the polls open later there
tonight, so that
some voters who might have been
pushed aside
might get a chance to vote after
all.
What's going on there?
JESSICA HUSEMAN: Sure.
Yes.
I mean, we're seeing long lines
there.
There are fewer voting locations
this year
than there have been in
elections past.
And so -- and given that this is
a high-turnout
election, we were expecting long
lines in
these states.
We were expecting long lines in
other states
that reduced their polling
locations.
And so we're seeing in North
Carolina what
we expected to see all along.
And so it's not clear how those
requests for
the polls will -- it's not clear
how the requests
will transpire for the polls to
stay open
later.
But there are certainly those
requests being
made.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: This is
obviously the first
presidential election we have
had since the
Supreme Court chipped away at
some significant
parts of the Voting Rights Act.
And one of the concerns there
was that minority
voters might be disenfranchised
with what
happens after that Supreme Court
ruling.
More broadly, have you seen any
reports of
those types of things going on?
JESSICA HUSEMAN: Right.
And so, you know, just like in
North Carolina,
what we're seeing in those
places is that
there is a limited number of
poling locations
this year compared to what there
was in 2012.
And so we are seeing longer
lines there.
And, as previous studies have
shown, those
longer lines tend to
disproportionately affect
minority voters.
And if we use Texas as an
example, for instance,
they changed their voter I.D.
laws.
And while that was taken to
federal court
and struck down, it only
happened in July.
And that's really close to the
start of an
election.
So what we're seeing there is a
ton of confusion
around what I.D. you actually
have to bring
to the polls, both on the part
of poll workers
and on voters themselves.
So, confusion just really
doesn't create clean
elections.
And so even when these issues
have been litigated
in court, they have been
litigated so late,
because they don't have to be
pre-approved
anymore, that we're still seeing
confusion,
we're still seeing unexpectedly
long lines,
and we're still seeing these
problems that
face voters that really just
shouldn't.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Jessica Huseman
of ProPublica, thank you so
much.
We're going to send it back down
to Hari and
Judy in the studio.
JESSICA HUSEMAN: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you,
William.
And I know we're going to be
checking back
with them, the folks at
ProPublica, throughout
the night.
Right now, though, we want to
step back and
get some historical perspective
on this Election
Day.
And joining us is "NewsHour"
regular Michael
Beschloss.
It's so good to have you back
with us again,
Michael.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS, Presidential
Historian:
Thank you so much, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, there is so
much to think
about on this Election Day,
after what the
country has been through.
Is there any election, Michael,
you can compare
this to?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: No.
(LAUGHTER)
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: And I spend
my whole life
looking for parallels, and
usually I can find
at least a contrived one.
But you cannot think of a
campaign that's
been this personal and this
negative.
And debates -- these have been
the nastiest
debates.
And the difference is, you know,
oftentimes,
people will say, well, didn't
John Adams and
Thomas Jefferson dis each other?
Yes, they did, but they usually
didn't do
it personally, and they sure
didn't do it
on TV.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
divisiveness
of the country?
That seems to have translated
directly from
the campaigns on to how
vitriolic people are
against the other candidate?
Has that happened before?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Oh, I think
-- not to this
disagree.
And if we were living in a
perfect world,
if this were the election in
American history
where there were the biggest
policy differences,
you might expect this, 1860,
when we were
about on the verge of the Civil
War over slavery,
or 1940, when we were fighting
over whether
we should get involved in a war
against Adolf
Hitler.
There are huge issue differences
this year,
but nothing like that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I have been dying
to ask you
this question for a long time.
What would the founding fathers
think about
the idea either of electing a
woman as president
or electing someone to office
who had no experience
in elective politics?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Well, the
lack of experience,
actually, they would find a
little bit more
understandable, because they
wanted people
who were not lifetime
politicians.
They wanted Cincinnatus to go
back to his
plow.
They wouldn't have imagined the
idea of a
woman as president.
But I think, if they had thought
a little
harder, they would have had to
think what
the freedoms and the values and
the goals
of the Constitution that they
wrote were likely
-- it might take two centuries,
as it did,
but were likely to lead to a
female president
at some point.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
historic
nature of that?
Hillary Clinton is closer than
anybody ever
has been to the office as a
woman.
I mean, she ran unsuccessfully
in another
term, but how historic is it?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: The miracle
is that it
took this long.
The 19th Amendment, which denied
states the
ability to deny women the vote,
that was 1920.
So, that was 96 years ago.
And if you go back, as I have,
to the debates
of 1920, they were saying, just
give women
the vote, there will be a lot of
female office
holders, there will probably be
a woman president
with a couple decades.
Didn't happen.
We have to ask why it took so
long.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And we're not
anywhere close
to parity even in terms of
representation
in Congress today.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Absolutely,
absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Michael, as
you think about
-- again, about the division in
the country
and about the need to heal this
country, what
does the historian in you -- how
do you see
that?
Do you look at something, oh,
yes, we have
been through tough times before,
we will get
through this, or do you look at
this as really
a moment that's unlike any other
in terms
of how divided we are?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Well, I think
the happy
thing is that the ugliness is
more personal
and more based on the kind of
campaign we
have been through than because
we're dealing
with an issue like Hitler or the
Civil War.
If you have got a
president-elect coming in
and saying, one of my first
responsibilities,
if not the supreme one, will be
to heal and
unite this nation, that can do a
lot.
That's happened in history.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, keeping out
immigrants,
changing trade policy doesn't
rise to the
level of a dispute over slavery?
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: It is deep
and it is rancorous,
but it's not to that level.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael
Beschloss, it's great
to have you with us.
And we will be talking to you
through the
evening.
MICHAEL BESCHLOSS: Thank you.
Looking forward.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thank you,
Michael.
This campaign season has been
very long, a
year-and-a-half since Trump and
Clinton first
announced their candidacies.
Tonight, as it comes to a close,
we take a
look back.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
It is wonderful to be here with
all of you.
You see the top 25 hedge fund
managers making
more than all of America's
kindergarten teachers
combined and often paying a
lower tax rate.
That is why I am running for
president of
the United States.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
When Mexico sends its people,
they're not
sending their best.
They're bringing drugs.
They're bringing crime.
They're rapists.
And some, I assume, are good
people.
I am officially running for
president of the
United States.
And we are going to make our
country great
again.
I think Jeb is a nice person.
He's very low-energy.
I'm not used to that kind of a
person.
JAKE TAPPER, Moderator: Last
week in "Rolling
Stone" magazine, Donald Trump
said the following
about you -- quote -- "Look at
that face.
Would anyone vote for that?
Can you imagine that, the face
of our next
president?"
CARLY FIORINA (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I think women all over this
country heard
very clearly what Mr. Trump
said.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I should
have used
two accounts, one for personal,
one for work-related
e-mails.
That was a mistake.
I'm sorry about that.
I take responsibility.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I), President
Candidate: The
American people are sick and
tired of hearing
about your damn e-mails.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Thank
you.
Me, too.
I took responsibility.
And, as part of that, before I
left office,
I launched reforms to better
protect our people
in the field and help reduce the
chance of
another tragedy happening in the
future.
DONALD TRUMP: Donald J. Trump is
calling for
a total and complete shutdown of
Muslims entering
the United States.
The World Trade Center came down
during the
reign of...
(BOOING)
DONALD TRUMP: He kept us safe?
That's not safe.
GOV.
CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), New Jersey:
So, we must
ask this question.
Hillary Clinton, as an awful
judge of the
character of a dictator and
butcher in the
Middle East, is she guilty or
not guilty?
AUDIENCE: Guilty!
Lock her up! Lock her up! Lock
her up!
DONALD TRUMP: My pledge reads,
I'm with you,
the American people.
I am your voice.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: To all Americans
tonight, in
all of our cities and in all of
our towns,
I make this promise: We will
make America
strong again.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: We will make
America proud again.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: We will make
America safe again.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
DONALD TRUMP: And we will make
America great
again.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Now
America is once
again at a moment of reckoning.
Powerful forces are threatening
to pull us
apart.
Bonds of trust and respect are
fraying.
And just as with our founders,
there are no
guarantees.
It truly is up to us.
Imagine, imagine him in the Oval
Office facing
a real crisis.
A man you can bait with a tweet
is not a man
we can trust with nuclear
weapons.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: It is
with humility,
determination, and boundless
confidence in
America's promise that I accept
your nomination
for president of the United
States!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: You
know, to just
be grossly generalistic, you
could put half
of Trump's supporters into what
I call the
basket of deplorables, the
racist, sexist,
homophobic, xenophobic,
Islamophobic, you
name it.
DONALD TRUMP: And I don't
believe that Hillary
has the stamina.
LESTER HOLT, Moderator: Let's
let her respond.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well, as
soon as he
travels to 112 countries and
negotiates a
peace deal, a cease-fire, a
release of dissidents,
an opening of new opportunities
in nations
around the world, or even spends
11 hours
testifying in front of a
congressional committee,
he can talk to me about stamina.
Or maybe he doesn't want the
American people,
all of you watching tonight, to
know that
he's paid nothing in federal
taxes, because
the only years that anybody's
ever seen were
a couple of years when he had to
turn them
over to state authorities when
he was trying
to get a casino license, and
they showed he
didn't pay any federal income
tax.
So, if he has paid...
DONALD TRUMP: That makes me
smart.
And I will tell you, you look at
the inner
cities -- and I just left
Detroit, and I just
left Philadelphia, and I just --
you know,
you've seen me.
I have been all over the place.
You decided to stay home, and
that's OK.
But I will tell you, I have been
all over.
And I have met some of the
greatest people
I will ever meet within these
communities.
And they are very, very upset
with what their
politicians have told them and
what their
politicians have done.
LESTER HOLT: Mr. Trump, I...
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I think
-- I think
-- I think Donald just
criticized me for preparing
for this debate.
And, yes, I did.
And you know what else I
prepared for?
I prepared to be president.
And I think that's a good thing.
DONALD TRUMP: And when you're a
star, they
let you do it.
You can do anything.
BILLY BUSH, "Access Hollywood":
Whatever you
want.
DONALD TRUMP: Grab them by the
(WORD DELETED).
You can do anything.
(LAUGHTER)
CHRIS WALLACE: Moderator: I want
to ask you
here on the stage tonight, do
you make the
same commitment that you will
absolutely -- sir,
that you will absolutely accept
the result
of this election?
DONALD TRUMP: I will look at it
at the time.
I'm not looking at anything now.
I will look at it at the time.
What I have seen -- what I have
seen is so
bad.
First of all, the media is so
dishonest and
so corrupt, and the pile-on is
so amazing.
The New York Times actually
wrote an article
about it, but they don't even
care.
It's so dishonest.
And they've poisoned the mind of
the voters.
She should never have been
allowed to run
for the presidency, based on
what she did
with e-mails and so many other
things.
CHRIS WALLACE: But, sir, there
is a tradition
in this country -- in fact, one
of the prides
of this country is the peaceful
transition
of power and that, no matter how
hard-fought
a campaign is, that, at the end
of the campaign,
that the loser concedes to the
winner.
Not saying that you're
necessarily going to
be the loser or the winner, but
that the loser
concedes to the winner, and that
the country
comes together, in part for the
good of the
country.
Are you saying you're not
prepared now to
commit to that principle?
DONALD TRUMP: What I'm saying is
that I will
tell you at the time.
I will keep you in suspense.
OK?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Well,
Chris, let me
respond to that, because that's
horrifying.
You know, every time Donald
thinks things
are not going in his direction,
he claims
whatever it is, is rigged
against him.
And I am sure they will reach
the same conclusion
they did when they looked at my
e-mails for
the last year.
There is no case here.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Although
my name and
my opponent's name may be on the
ballot, every
issue you care about is on that
ballot.
DONALD TRUMP: If we don't win,
this will be
the single greatest waste of
time, energy,
and money in my life.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a reminder
for all night
long.
Our election coverage continues
on our Web
site, including live election
results and
much more, at PBS.org/NewsHour.
And, meantime, in other news
today: Wall Street
is also keeping a close eye on
these election
returns.
Stocks made big gains, Monday,
after chances
of a Clinton victory appeared to
improve,
and they rose again today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 73
points to close at 18332.
The Nasdaq rose 27 points, and
the S&P 500
added eight.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The U.S.
Supreme Court will
decide whether to let cities sue
big banks
for compensation over the
housing meltdown
of 2008.
In arguments today, the city of
Miami, Florida,
charged that Wells Fargo, Bank
of America
and Citigroup targeted minority
customers
for risky loans that led to mass
foreclosures.
The city says it should be
allowed to sue
for lost property taxes and
damaged property
values.
A lower court ruled against the
banks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, once again,
this is election
night.
The polls are closing in the
first batch of
states in just a few minutes.
The results will give us a first
look at how
Democrat Hillary Clinton and
Republican Donald
Trump are doing with the voters.
Also at stake tonight, of
course, control
of the United States Senate,
with Democrats
hoping to wrest away the
Republicans' majority.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that's the
"NewsHour"
for now.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us all night on this, your
PBS station,
for special live election
coverage.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and stay with us.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and stay with us.